60+ (4 participants)
Question 1. What’s your favourite place in your city to spend time with your male friends? Why - feel free to be specific?
Patrick: Okay, I'll start off, gents, if that's okay. Being the fact that I live in Milton Keynes, it's a, um, you probably know it's a fairly new city. Um, I've lived, um, in a place called Bletchley. Um, for, um, on the outskirts of Milton Keynes. for quite a number of years. So the city has grown. Um, I've got a number of, um, sort of male friends that I've worked with and we meet up in, um, probably every, every couple of months, every six weeks, couple of months.
And I suppose I hate to say, but our favourite place tends to be a Wetherspoons. Um, we tend to meet in a pub and, uh, we just, uh, We just tend to go for a, a curry, um, we sort of meet up, chat about old times and, uh, we've got quite a bit in common, all of us. So, um, yeah, that's what we tend to do. We tend to go for a few beers, nothing, nothing too much, tend to go for a few beers and then we just end up going for a curry.
How about the rest of you?
Toby: Well, I suppose
Keith: Well, I like to go to Wetherspoons too, Patrick.
Patrick: Good.
Keith: It's just that I got some, I used to live down South. Um, well in Somerset, funny enough, Bridgewater and, um, made a lot, a lot of friends. I worked for the, the, the local council and, um, many of them come up for a holiday every year.
So yeah, we like to go around the city and always spend up our times in, um, in Wetherspoon. It's cheap, cheerful, good food and needs to say the company's good.
Good.
Toby: Yay. Well decide what you eat. Uh, I'll leave that up to the wife. She's like, she decides what I eat. But if like, we're going out, we go down to the local pub.
And because I'm rural as well, we've got lots of farms round here, so we, uh. We're lucky enough to get sort of a freebies lots of freebies, which is good.
Fletcher: Similar to the up to everybody else really, male friends definitely it will be a pub. The older we get, the the quieter that pub needs to be. We can't be doing loud music in pubs anymore. And again, like Toby said, living in a rural place, we've got a few country pubs which are lovely, expensive but lovely.
And, um, I suppose like a traditional kind of, um, British pub meal is what we tend to go for.
Patrick: Okay. I'm just coming back, just looking at the other questions while, um, you were, you were sort of having a chat. Um, I mean, it wasn't until, um, fairly recently that I didn't realise that probably in what we eat. We eat a number of plant based things anyway, like the tomatoes, the strawberries, the raspberries, um, the vegetables, the broccoli and what have you.
And, um, when I was chatting to my wife about it, um, it, it's just quite strange that we eat a lot of plant based food, but probably didn't associate it with, um, the survey as it is at the minute. Um, we, we obviously still eat, um, meat, um, not a great deal of meat, but we’re certainly not, um, against meat. Um, we eat quite a bit of chicken.
Um, she does the old curry, which she uses the beef mince for. Um, so it wasn't until probably fairly recently that we acknowledged that we probably eat a lot of plant plant based food anyway, but without actually going on it as a diet.
Fletcher: I think you're right. I think when people talk about plant based food they, they often sort of think about um, meat substitutes.
But as you say, Patrick, we've been eating vegetables and fruits forever. So, um, Maybe we need for this discussion or for future discussions to distinguish between plant based food and meat substitutes.
Toby: I'm a carnivore, basically. I mean, I eat a lot of meat. But with that meat, as you say, is vegetables. Always have done, always will do. I mean, to change that, I would have to give up meat. That would be a great loss for me.
Keith: That's up to individual preference though, isn't it? Two years ago, I went on a plant based diet.
Okay, yeah. I lost three stone in two years, which is, I suppose, okay. I don't know. But I eat meat once in a blue moon now. One, because it's really expensive. Two, I find it hard to cook. So I decided to go plant based 95 percent of the time and to cook your own food it's very easy to do and it's quick and I would recommend it to anybody if they can make that change.
Patrick: So, so Keith in terms of you going on the plant based, was it something you said I'm going on a plant based, sort of, um, food regime or you just decided to cut out the meat or did you specifically go for the plant based, um, type of food?
Keith: I specifically went for the plant based.
Patrick: Right. Um.
Keith: I got gout and arthritis in my left knee and, um, my doctor told me at the time that I was to cut out all meat.
Well, everybody knows you can't just do it. So I decided to try it, but still eat meat very, very occasionally. Um, and it has helped, um, plus the fact that I've got diabetes. I don't know if anybody else has, and I find it helps out as well because of the non sugaring things. So, um, yeah, I've, I've, I'll recommend it if people would make the change.
Not all at one go, but over a period of time, but that's my preference.
Question 2. How do you decide what to eat?
Fletcher: So, Keith, in a way, you've sort of answered question two, haven't you? The way you've decided what you now eat has been dictated a little, little bit about sort of health concerns in your recent life. Um, and I'm not at that stage, but I'm very conscious that there's any number of newspaper articles and TV articles about how we should cut down on meat. Um, and I, you know, I'd be wrong to say that that's not influencing me. It is. Um, I still love meat, but, um, a little bit of guilt sort of creeps in sometimes.
Keith: Absolutely. Yeah. Well, I mean, when you think how some of these animals are slaughtered and how they're bred, you know, um, it turns you off and the later you go on in life, like we are now, you must appreciate that.
Animals are human beings, in a way, and they're being slaughtered and, and chickens are, you know, they're, well, they're hundred to a foot, aren't they, these days? Um, but that never occurred to me when I decided to start using plants as a food substitute.
Fletcher: Yeah, and I think if I may be so bold, you know, um, a little bit of that question, how we decide what we eat.
I think a lot of it is dictated perhaps by our upbringing, uh, and our age. Mm. Yeah. We spoke about food when, when I was a kid or a teenager or in my twenties or in my thirties. It was just what you had. You liked it and you ate it.
Keith: Yeah, that's right. It's what what you, what what was put on the table. You were told to eat.
Yeah. And I know that I, I remember very vividly that every Sunday. It was Sunday roast and Monday was cold meat and, you know, and so it went on. Um, so it's, yeah, everybody, I think, was brought up virtually the same, depending on the family circumstances. But, yeah, it, it, but again, like I say, the older you get, I think the wiser you get.
And you get more ailments and you try to keep, keep up with what's going on. Um. And I would say, I said to you earlier, I would recommend it anyway. I don't know many people that are on it, but I know a few.
Patrick: I must admit, I mean, the, the, the friends that I go out with, one is, one is older than me. Um, the other three are younger. Um, they're still working. There's still a working age. Um, I couldn't see that they would necessarily have this discussion we are having today. Um, uh, I would see them still to be, um, sort of meat eaters as such. Um, although I don't know what, um, what they tend to do in their day to day lives. And I think one of the, um, one of the questions on there is the, what would we do, or how would we go about it? That's the difficulty. I'm, I'm, uh, my wife does most of the cooking. Um, as, as one of you said earlier, uh, she tends to do the meals and of course the difficulty, and this is where Keith might help on here.
The difficulty always is, is what to know, what to eat and what to cook to make it a quite enjoyable meal.
Keith: Well, I, I went online and, uh, looked up plant based foods and there was a lot, a lot, a lot of recipes that were very appealing. And, um, even when I go shopping, I, I look at the plant based foods first to see if there's anything interesting that I might like.
Um, the wife cooks what she wants to cook. She's not on a plant base. And, um, it works very well. But, yeah, a lot of plant based recipes online now.
Toby: I think India, if you look at the diet, the cuisine of India around there, it doesn't have to be all curry. But because they are plant based, that's what they eat.
There's a lot of recipes.
Keith: Yeah, there are and you can adapt them to the way you want. You don't have to follow the recipe 100%. You can adjust it to your taste.
Patrick: I mean, when you were saying Keith that you still have, um, you still have some meat. Um, how regularly would you say that you have meat, um, in terms of the fact that you're more or less on a plant based diet?
Keith: Once every couple of months.
Patrick: Okay, right.
Keith: And once at Christmas.
Patrick: Oh yeah, of course, yeah, yeah.
Keith: But no, it's, it's, it's very, um, it's, I don't know, I think, I don't really cook meat at home. Mm hmm. But I tend, if I'm away out with family or whatever, I tend to, uh, follow the trend. But, I don't make a habit of it.
Fletcher: I was going to ask a similar question, Keith.
Um, you know, because the first question is about how we might go out and go to Wetherspoons or a restaurant. Um, to what extent would having meat, to what extent would a little phrase come into your head like, oh, I'll treat myself, you know, you, you might have plant based most of the time for lunch and dinner, but if you're going out, would you want to do that or would you want to sort of treat yourself to a, dare I say a nice juicy steak or, or a meat pie or something?
Keith: Um, well, it depends on how many times you go out, but. If I go out, like, Wetherspoons do a good, um, vegetable curry. Other places like that do vegetable curries. Um, and some now are doing plant based meals. So, um, I would look at the meal menu and, uh, decide what to have. But I don't, uh, I don't go out every time and look at the meat section.
I mean, fish is okay. Um, but, yeah, that's about it really. It's just a question of decide if there's nothing on the menu I don't like or don't think it's tasty, then I might have a juicy steak. But then if I have a juicy steak, I won't have meat for another month or so, you know, and try and cut it out. If I go out again with friends, family, whatever, I try not to eat meat again, if I've just recently had it. 
Yeah, it's hard to do sometimes, but, you know, I tend to want to do it. So I try to stick to my routine. 
Patrick: Do you get like, um, when you go out again, sort of Keith or, or, well, cause you're, you're the one primarily it's on, um, tends to be the expert and this type of thing, plant based food, because you've been practising it and, um, not just preaching it, but practising it.
Do you get like a guilt complex if you have a bit of meat or, or do you know, does it not affect you that way now?
Keith: No, it doesn't affect me anymore because I'm out to enjoy myself. I'm not out to think about where did this bit of meat come from, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And because I do really limit myself when I'm out, um, no, I don't get a guilt complex at all.
If I have meat steak, say, which I haven't done, have it in two, uh, maybe once a week for three weeks, then I could, I would get guilty. But as I don't do that, no, it doesn't enter my head when I do.
Toby: I've got a question up, guys, about all of this plant based and stuff. If we all went plant based, right, everyone, what would happen to those animals? What would happen to the cows, the sheep, the chickens?
Keith: Well, they'd just run free, wouldn't they? Because farmers wouldn't be able to do anything, so they'd be out of a job.
Toby: Would they survive?
Keith: What, the animals? Yeah. Yeah, most of them live on the, on the, on the land anyway, don't they?
Toby: Yeah, but they're also fed.
What I'm saying is they've been bred to give us a service as it were.
Keith: Yeah, absolutely.
Toby: Yeah, they've been bred that way.
Keith: You wouldn't get your eggs either, would you?
Toby: No, you wouldn't get anything. That's what I'm saying. What would happen to the animals? You know, I don't know if they would survive.
Fletcher: Well, it wouldn't happen overnight, would it? It would, you know, it would phase itself out and then farmers or livestock people would stop the breeding processes and, and the populations of the, the herds would drop down to manageable levels where they could live off the land or we could farm them for something else like their, for wool or for their hides or for something else, I suppose.
Keith: Yeah, that's a good point, actually.
Toby: If you're plant based I just, thinking like the vegans then the hide leather would that be morally, okay?
Fletcher: Probably not for a vegan.
I'm not an expert on that, but probably not.
Patrick: I don't think like you're saying, I don't think that would be an overnight process. And to be honest, when you look at, um, wherever you go on holiday, when you go out, there is always, um, there's always plenty of meat on the, on, on, on the menu and probably less choice for the likes of those that want to go on a plant based, um, sort of, a plant based meal.
Um, you've already said, Keith, you go out, and if there's nothing that you fancy on the menu, because it doesn't suit you, then, then you will have a little bit of a, a meat in, in the menu. Um, so yeah, that would, that, that would take probably, yeah, it wouldn't be in our lifetime if it ever happened, if it ever happened.
Um, it's just, I suppose the idea is to get people a little bit healthier. Um, yeah, they'll still look at the, um, the animal side of it and, uh, and the protection of them. But, uh, yeah, it's to make, primarily I would imagine, to get people to, to eat more healthier than what they're probably currently doing at the minute.
Fletcher: You touched on something there, Patrick, because, you know, the messages that I mentioned earlier about being healthier in our eating habits and doing something for the environment at the same time, a counterpoint to that, of course, is supporting British farmers. Um, cause you know, they live a sort of a very, um, precarious sort of existence.
Um, although you wouldn't, you wouldn't believe that if you live where I do, the farmers seem very well off, but you know what I mean? We buy British meat, buy British lamb, uh, support your farmers. Um, no, I never feel guilty when I have a spinach burger, you know, I never think about my local farmer losing out, but there is that other pressure.
You know? Hmm. Hmm.
Toby: And literally, you know, there is a field and we've got cows and sheep. And you look all around Bodmin Moor and around Cornwall, it's not arable, it's livestock. There's very few, very little arable in Cornwall. So the farmers, that is their livelihood out there, the livestock, unfortunately.
Patrick: Yeah, I don't think, I mean, to be honest, I probably, I probably would, my time of life probably wouldn't go to a, um, a plant based diet or plant based food supplement entirely.
Um, again, like Keith was saying every now and again, it's just nice when, when you go out, it's nice to have something a little bit different to what you normally have indoors, but, but we have noticed that, as I said before, we have noticed that we are gradually, um, um, getting, um, more and more plant based foods into our eating habits, um, and there's nothing wrong with that whatsoever.
So, so it's good to, it's good still to have the choice nowadays, but at the same time, something like this just makes you a bit more knowledgeable, um, and it gives you a bit more of a focus.
Keith: Absolutely.
Question 3. Do you think your gender influences what you eat? Tell us more about why or why not?
Fletcher: Just thinking about question three, um, it's obviously that we're all men, um, and I think, I'll put my hands up, and I think I am eating more plant based food, um, for the reasons that I've mentioned it, but one of the drivers is my wife.
Um, she's very happy to have much, much more plant based food. And had it been left to me, I wouldn't have eaten as much as I already have. And I think that's also true for my other female relatives. Um, my, my mates' wives. I think there's quite a difference between, um, the, the genders on this one.
Patrick: Oh, yeah.
Yeah. Go on, Toby. Yeah.
Toby: I can say my wife's family, the rest of her brothers and sisters, the four of them, they are all vegetarians. So my wife, she's not a vegetarian, but we do have significant plant based food meals, uh, because of that. Because when we see the family, so you do have to adapt and feed other people what they, what their preference is.
Keith: My youngest grandchild, um, I went down to see her a couple of months ago because she lives down south in Little Hampton. She's 13 years old, but she knows everything about plant based food, and she said stick with it, stick with it, stick with it, you know, and she's 13 years old and she's already into it.
I suppose that's a teenager for you, but you know, even though, even though mum, my daughter is um, getting that way, but I, I, uh, it's certainly getting around.
Patrick: Yeah. Um, yeah, I, I, when you, when you were saying Fletcher about that, that question three, yeah, I, I would agree with you. I think, um, I think it's males and meat, you know, if I can put it as, if I can put it like that, it, I think, I think, um, I think women are probably more prone to come off meat a lot easier than men.
It's just, it's just my opinion. And again, I'm trying to associate with, um, the, um, friends that I go out with. Um, I also go out, I mentioned earlier in the discussion that I'll do some invigilating and it's only, it's only about, I don't know, averages throughout the year, um, four or five hours a week, if you take it on an average.
Um, but I go out with a few of them, the six of us go out every so often and they tend to look less at the meat side of it and they will look more at the the pasta side of it the the vegetarian side of it whereas the the couple of men in there one one is very much a fish and chip man. He comes from South Africa. He likes his fish. Where I will look at the sort of, the meat side of it, or, or something of that nature, but yeah, I think, I think the gender side of it is certainly, from my point of view, men are meat, definitely.
Keith: Yeah, I totally agree. Does anybody think cost comes into it? When you're out eating,
Fletcher: Yeah, it's an expensive process eating out and, illogical this may sound, um, if I'm looking at a menu and it's got a vegetarian dish for, let's say 16 or 17 pounds, I just found it off putting. I think, but you know, I understand meat being that much, but veg it can't be. I know that's illogical.
Keith: So you're, but what you're not saying is that if the meat is cheaper than the, the veg, then the, the, yeah, the plant based food, you'll have the meat. Because it's cheaper.
Fletcher: Um, sort of more nuanced than that. I'm saying, um, I baulk at the idea of non meat products being so expensive. Doesn't sit right with me. And I know that some agronomist could sit down with me and go through chapter and verse about all the cost implications and why it needs to be the price it is, but a little part of maybe it's my upbringing says it should be, hang on, what's the phrase, as cheap as chips, you know, uh, it should be cheaper than it is.
Um, So I do admit that's illogical.
Patrick: Yeah. So, so it's value for money, which is in effect what you're saying. So yeah, yeah, yeah. Value for money. And, and I think we've just grown up with the fact that, um, meat's always been in a menu and, um, yeah, again, when you, when you go out nowadays, the price of meat, um, if you, if you want a nice bit of fillet steak, it can be, I suppose it depends where you go, but you'd be lucky to get any change out of 28, 30 pounds, if not more.
Um, and it's the same with things like ribs and which, which is what I quite like. Um, I quite like going out and, um, having some ribs because we don't have them at home. So, so it's a treat every now and again. Um, I must admit. I do look at a menu to look at alternatives, but there isn't a great deal that I see that gives me an alternative to what I would normally like, but maybe that that will change in the future after we have these sort of discussions.
Keith: It's certainly very helpful, isn't it, to talk about these things?
Patrick: Yes. Oh, definitely.
Patrick: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But certainly, as I said, the, the friends that I go out with, um, the male friends that I go out with, I just can't see them going any, any other way, but continuing the way that they are. They don't, um, we don't have a discussion when we go out about, um, what's on the menu or shall we have plant based or anything of that nature.
They are, they are slightly, slightly younger than me apart from one of them, um, but they all tend to be, uh, meat eaters and I can't very well see them changing that much. Uh, we certainly don't have discussions on plant based food. Which is a bit of a shame, but maybe that's just how it is at the minute.
Keith: Yeah, but probably haven't even thought about it. 
Patrick: No, no, no.
Fletcher: I wonder to what extent, um, changes that we've seen and changes still to come could be driven a little bit by, um, travel. Um, certainly when, when we, when we come back from holiday, um, I'm interested in, you know, photographs of the places where I've, I've been.
My wife's interested in the food she saw and she'll be Googling menus and ways of cooking. Um, things that she hasn't seen before. And I suppose if you take it in the long term, things that we now see on a daily basis in our supermarkets, we never saw as kids, uh, or growing up. Um, but they've sort of found their way onto our dinner plates.
Partly, not entirely, but partly because we've, we've travelled a lot more. Um, I know, you know, um, you know, Toby mentioned India and he's absolutely right. I've done a little bit of travelling there. You can have wonderful food and none of it is animal based at all. Um, and you know that tourism now is off the scale compared to what it was even 30 years ago.
Uh, I think that will be something of a driver as well. Mm hmm. Mm hmm.
Patrick: I think also just when you go out, and again you were saying Fletcher about going abroad, but even if you look in the supermarket shelves, um, when you go out shopping nowadays, and some of the vegetables. That are on the supermarket shelves I've never ever heard of. Um, and, um, Keith would probably know what to do with them, but I certainly wouldn't.
Um, that is probably just an idea of looking at them and, and, and, you know, he was saying just getting a recipe, finding out what they are, finding out what you could do with them. And what sort of doesn't influence me, um, on plant based too much is the fact that I just wonder how bland it would be.
Keith will probably tell us differently. Um, but as I said, I certainly think we'd be eating more plant based, um, food lately than what we had probably 18 months, two years ago.
Keith: Yeah. I mean, if I went to the supermarket today and I saw something different, I wouldn't buy it until I found out exactly what it was online.
I thought it looked good, tastes good. I'd go out and buy it and try it. If you don't like it, throw it away. Um, I know that's not the answer to it. I wouldn't go out and buy it again. I'd try something else. But I certainly wouldn't dismiss it because it was different. I'd certainly try to find out what it was, where it came from, what it tastes like, and then try it.
You can always spice it up, add a bit of salt, you know, or do something to it. Um, stick it in a pot of gravy, you know, just get a bit of taste to it. Well, you know, it's surprising how much difference that makes. Um, but just look for what you, look for what it is and try it. Vegetables aren't that expensive anyway.
So you're not losing anything by trying it. No.
Patrick: I mean, yeah, I was going to say we talk about, when we've, we've been having this discussion this afternoon, we talk about plant based foods being mainly, I suppose being mainly main dishes, but of course plant based foods tend to be your desserts as well, don't they?
Your strawberries and your raspberries and, and, and that type of thing. And no doubt all of us have been eating those for some, for some years. It's just. Getting, I suppose, plant based more into a main, a main sort of diet or a main dish rather than a dessert dish.
Keith: Yeah, that's a fair point.
Fletcher: Actually, thinking on that point, Patrick, you got me thinking, um, you know, one of the drivers for moving away from meat is the ecological aspect of it. But there's a sort of an inherent sort of contradiction there, isn't there? When people will perhaps go to the supermarket and say, I'm not going to have so much chicken because they're polluting our rivers, you know, one way or another, and yet they're happy to buy pineapples grown in Costa Rica that have been flown to us, you know, on a jet or something, something like that.
Um, you know, it's sort of, I'm not saying any of those messages or prompts are wrong. But there's enough contradictions out there to weaken almost any argument.
Moderator: Just letting you know you have about 10 more minutes. Please ensure you have addressed each question to your satisfaction.
Patrick: And I think one of the ones is, um, again, number two is how, how do we decide what to eat? Um, I don't know whether anyone here has got. Like, uh, um, I know my, my daughter and son in law, they've got two very young children. Um, they don't have a lot of meat.
Um, they're not on a plant based diet, but they don't have a lot of meat. And they have, um, they have like a set menu. Um, the the grandchildren particularly, they're only seven and five. They like a lot of pasta. Um, and they have vegetables every single night, um, and they have a, um, they know what they're getting from a Monday to a Friday in terms of meals.
And I don't, does anyone plan their meals on a, on a weekly basis or do you just wait and see what happens, what turns up on the table?
Toby: A Wednesday fry up, that's it.
Patrick: Sorry?
Toby: It's a Wednesday fry up. That's it. Other than that, I don't know what we're having for one day to the next.
Patrick: Not a Sunday fry up, a Wednesday fry up.
Toby: Yeah, my food life is a wonderful surprise.
Keith: I'll go out and do a bit of shopping and just decide what I fancy and make it last a couple of days. And then go out again. But, um, Patrick, do you not think that, um, the younger generation, like your daughters, um, have what they have because of the cost of living.
Patrick: Oh, yeah. Yeah. I, I, um.
Keith: Which is not a bad thing.
Patrick: No, no, no, no.
Keith: House prices and everything else on top, um, pasta's the easiest thing to, that's healthy as well.
Patrick: Yeah. And, and, and they like it. Um, they like the pasta. Um, as I said, they made sure they get their, um, plant based, uh, plant based vegetables every day. Not because they're saying it's plant based, but they have vegetables because it's good for them to grow up having vegetables because it's not an anomaly for them later in life when they're suddenly put on a plate.
Yeah. Um, so they have lots of carrots, they have, um, they have broccoli, um, so they have that type of, um, meal. And they'll even have it with their pasta. Because they like it and they've got used to it. But yes, you're right Keith, you have to be particularly careful. Um, my, my, yeah, you have to be careful of the money side of it.
And, and, uh, if you look at, we come back to the meat thing. Um, I think it was mentioned that you used to have a Sunday roast. Yeah, I used to like a Sunday roast. Don't do that anymore because it's too, it's too expensive for a leg of lamb.
Keith: My, um, I've got a couple of Indian friends. One of them, her father, makes the absolute delicious egg curry. And it, I've got the recipe, which helps me, but um, I've known, I've known them for quite a few years. And, um, that's so easy to cook. Plus it's healthy. Yeah, yeah. 
Patrick: Yeah, it's got all your vegetables in it as well, has it?
Keith: Yeah. Yeah.
Question 5. What might make plant-based foods more appealing to you or other men you know?
Fletcher: Um, I would have said, you know, make it more tasty and it already is getting some of the things that you can buy, like spinach bakes and things like that are really very, very nice now. Yeah.
Um, great progress, but maybe more still to come because some of it can be quite bland and I would put cost in there as well.
Like I've mentioned before in a slightly different context, I do think it's quite expensive for what you seem to be getting in your plant based food.
Patrick: I think as well, um, experimenting more, um, taking the plunge to a certain degree, uh, and buying some of these, um, vegetables, um, taking the plunge because you can, you can mix vegetables up and I'm sure there'll be really delicious, uh, very tasty and very fulfilling, but yeah, I think one of the certain things that we would need to do will just be, um, just, just experiment, just to try it, um, and just see what happens.
Keith: Yeah. We must be doing pretty well, because you said 15 minutes.
Patrick: Yeah, yeah, we haven't stopped.
Keith: Yeah, we've given him too much information.
Patrick: Yeah, maybe that's what it is, isn't it? Yeah, yeah. But, um, yeah, I just, I just, that's certainly one of the things, um, I don't mind trying it. I don't mind giving it a go, uh, and my wife would certainly be the same.
Um, but I said we don't eat an enormous amount of meat as such. Um, but yeah, I've, I've been more than happy to give it a go, but it's just experimenting and making sure that we get the right mix of vegetables to make it enjoyable.
Keith: You'll enjoy it if you do, especially if you cook it yourself, or the wife cooks it.
Patrick: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Or, or we do it together.
Keith: Oh, oh, it's even better then, isn't it?
Patrick: Yeah, even better, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Fletcher: I'm not a big consumer of like cookery programs on TV. I don't know if any of you chaps are, um, but do they address this issue? Do they sort of, um, pitch any of their programs at people like us, our age, the men, and try and sort of show us easy things that we might not have thought of before.
Keith: Well, I found the best one is, um, Jamie I think he's very down to earth. I think he's very, um, home effective. The family, because he's got a big family, I think he bases a lot of his ideas on family meals and I find him above all to be very helpful. Um, his website is pretty interesting as well. But, um, all the other cookery programs that are like, I don't know, um, this is what I do.
Um, you can try it, but
Toby: I've got no idea. I'm watching.
Fletcher: Uh, no, for me.
Keith: Tom Kerridge, bloody hell. He's all money in the pocket, isn't he? You know? About 85 quid for steak and chips. You know what I mean? Come on.
Patrick: No, I think but you were saying Keith, the place to look. Look online. Jamie Oliver. Just, just, just try a couple of them and see what they're like.
Keith: Yeah. Yeah. Or if you fancy like, uh, any sort of food that you like, just go online and see what you can make up. And it's surprising how quick and cheap and cheerful it is and you get satisfaction out of it. Especially if it tastes good.
Patrick: Yeah. Yeah. Especially if it tastes good. Yeah.
Toby: Gumbo, my wife makes a gumbo. 
Patrick: Okay.
Toby: Vegetarian, stunning thing.
Keith: Is that with the fish and chips?
Toby: That's with the fish and chips. You've got a fish and chip gumbo.
Fletcher: Keith, do you have things like, um, you know, meat free burgers and meat free sausages and things like that?
Keith: Um, occasionally. I can't get on with them funny enough. I just find the taste very, very bland.
Fletcher: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Keith: But no, I can't get on with them really at all. But that's just a matter of taste, isn't it? Um, you guys might go out and try them, if you haven't already done so, and totally enjoy them.
Fletcher: They've also improved, I think, over the years. But they're still not anywhere near, um, an actual sausage or an actual burger.
Keith: No, absolutely. I mean, Quorn's not too bad. Um, I don't know if you've tried it.
Fletcher: Yeah, I have. And Linda McCartney.
Keith: Yeah, they're not too bad at all. But again, it's down to taste, isn't it?
Toby: Vegetable pasty. 
Patrick: Okay. I've tried the, um, I haven't tried it, but I tried a bit of someone had it on their plate. We went and stayed at a Premier Inn and they have these restaurants associated with them. They're usually beef eaters or somewhere like that. And for breakfast one morning, um, my sister-in-law tried the bacon substitute and it's simply called, I think it's not bacon, but it was, it was literally just like a piece of leather.
Um, and, and, and, and it's like, you were saying, Fletcher, they just, have to make it a bit more, a bit bit more enticing, a bit more enjoyable if they're gonna have substitutes. Um, it certainly wasn't like the real thing. Um, but, but at least we gave it a go and it, and it, it, it was, and, and it could very well be the way it was cooked and, and what have you.
But yeah, it, it was just like a little piece of leather and it looked like it as well on the plate. Yeah, so not enjoyable whatsoever. That one. Yeah.
Keith: You didn't ask him to stick it on the bottom of your foot.
Patrick: Uh, it might have suited it well, Keith. Yeah. Yeah.
Toby: Good, good. Well, I think we’re done guys, I think.