Transcript

Moderator: Thank you so much everybody for taking the time to participate in this focus group. I will now introduce what we are going to do. So in this focus group, we will explore questions that are meant to create effective self-administered mindfulness interventions tailored for individuals facing time and financial constraints, while seeking stress relief. The idea of this intervention is that it is practical, impactful, and accessible to individuals experiencing medium to high levels of stress. We will try to identify key components for stress reduction. And we will also discuss other key elements of this intervention such as duration and frequency for the audio mindfulness tracks that will be part of this intervention. If we have time, we'll discuss the critical aspects of creating a balanced control group for the research that will match the mindfulness intervention. Throughout the discussion, feel free to share your thoughts openly, there are no wrong or right answers. And you may not answer all the questions, just feel free to answer the questions you want to answer. You will take turns. And I will moderate the session, meaning I won't provide myself an answer to these questions.

So I will start with the first set of questions. For a briefer self-administered mindfulness intervention, how can we effectively adapt traditional mindfulness practices from an MBSR format, while ensuring the efficacy? This does not have to be necessarily an adapted version of MBSR. But it should be an intervention that can be self-administered, and should be functional to reduce stress levels of participants. Can we design a mindfulness protocol centered only on key mindfulness components to impact to maximize impact on stress regulation? Which components should be most important for the design? And finally, what elements are crucial for the success of online mindfulness training, in your opinion? So these are the set of questions they want to start with to enhance the discussion. So what are your ideas?

Speaker 2: I'm happy to go first if you'd like me to, so I really feel that the most effective way to develop mindfulness is to actually practice meditation. So meditation is something that I've practiced for 15 years now. And I just know personally, that it is transformative in developing mindfulness, because when we practice meditation, a focused type of meditation – it depends what type of meditation, but a focused type of meditation – you are actually trying to keep your attention on whatever the focus is, say, a mantra, or your breath. And when your mind wanders, you're just very gently accepting and acknowledging whatever thoughts or emotions have arisen, and letting them go and come back to the focus. So just the actual practice of meditation is developing this awareness of when our mind wanders, what we're thinking, what we're feeling, and just accepting it and not reacting to it. And I actually believe that is the most effective way to develop mindfulness, that awareness of ourselves, of our bodily sensations, of awareness of our thoughts and our emotions. And interestingly, I saw a presentation with Sara Lazar. A couple of months ago, Meditation Australia did an interview with her, and she actually showed that studies using mantra meditation may have a bigger effect on physiological conditions than MBSR mindfulness. So my suggestion is going to be people do a 10 to 15 minute mantra meditation each day as part of the program. That's my suggestion.

Speaker 3: Is the word physiological response  you mentioned, that was highlighted?

Speaker 2: She was talking about stress, specifically, I believe, well, how

Speaker 3: Did she measure it?

Speaker 2: I don't know the details of the research. I just took some notes from the interview. And that's what she said. So I don't know whether that was her own personal research. She's done a lot of research into meditation. I don't know if that's her own personal research or whether that's somebody else's. So she's quoting. That's what she said. And she's very highly respected in the industry.

Speaker 3: I was just curious what that was, but thank you.

Moderator: So the component in a way would be like really focused attention and like non-reactivity, based on what you said.

Speaker 2: Yeah, so I believe focusing on, say, a mantra. But I do believe that meditation has to have that space, that silence for people to then notice when their mind has wandered. So this is sort of answering that last question you've got: How can you have a control group? I do believe that if you have a guided meditation, like a visualization, which is continually talking, there isn't that space for somebody to actually notice when their mind has wandered, and become aware of it, and gently accept it and let those thoughts or feelings go. So they're not actually developing the benefits in the same way with a continually talking, guided meditation, like visualization. So if you thought of a visualization, it might be a good option for your control group. And the other thing that might be quite good for your control group is if you can have people who actually have no ability to visualize. So I'm actually one of those. And I didn't realize that I was until teaching the meditation teacher training course. I've had lots of students create their own meditations, and some have chosen to create visualizations, and they will be guiding them. And I'll be sitting there listening to them with the rest of the group. And I'm thinking, they're saying, "Picture this and picture that," and I can't picture anything, my eyes, like I close my eyes, and it's just black. And then, when we're discussing the meditation, after it's been guided, and people say, "Oh, I could see this thing, see that?" I thought, "Hang on. There's something strange going on here." And I Googled it. And in 2015, it was actually given a name. It's called aphantasia, this inability to visualize. And apparently, we're all on a scale. Some people have a very vivid imagination and can visualize lots of things. Other people are like me, and it's absolutely nothing. And other people are somewhere in between. So for me to listen to a visualization meditation, I have derived absolutely no benefits whatsoever. So I thought, if you can have a control group who cannot visualize and have visualization meditations, then they think they're doing it, but they won't be actually benefiting? Well, not not much at all.

Speaker 4: I can perhaps share a few thoughts. So this will be more from the MBSR perspective, because this is what I'm familiar with. So I think with MBSR, one of the core domains or elements of the program is that we make sure our participants integrate mindfulness as a part of their life. And so how we do that is we go with both formal and what we call formal and informal meditation. So formal meditation would be what Suzy was sharing. So you basically need the time and space to dwell in stillness, you put everything aside. And so basically, you stop, what's what's going on in your day-to-day life, and you take that time and space to practice. And so it doesn't say this aspect of it. If you're adapting it for an online version, it doesn't have to be as long as what's being done in MBSR. It can be shorter versions, depending on how much time this participant is able to afford, but I think what's most important is that they're able to make this as a part of their routine and that they practice every single day, that's more important. So the general guideline is that you would rather, I would rather my learners practice 10 minutes a day, then an hour, once a week or an hour, once a month. So consistency is really important. And at the same time, the informal aspect of the practice is equally important, because with mindfulness, it's really about ideally, in every waking moment, we're maintaining that contiguity of that mindful awareness. So we want to facilitate that in the learners' experience. So if we can highlight that aspect, and help them to learn how to meditate while they're eating, how to invite mindful awareness, when they're going about their chores, that self-care routines, and also to be routine and consistent with that practice, I think that would be very crucial for the mindfulness training. And we also talk about the four different postures of mindfulness, that's very essential. So the four postures are daily life, whether it's sitting or standing, or walking, or lying down. And so if we can help them learn how to practice mindfulness in these four postures, wherever they are, whether it's in formal or informal meditation, I think this will give them a very holistic approach to the practice of mindfulness in daily life that will be practical for them. These are just some initial thoughts I have. Thank you.

Speaker 2: I get my students to do in part of the course is, over some of the weeks is actually set a random alarm to go off at different times of the day. And that is basically a mindfulness checking moment. So they just get to hear the alarm and then just get to stop. Think, okay, am I thinking about what I'm, I'm doing? Is my mind wandering? How am I feeling? So it's just that opportunity to check in, and I think having an alarm that can go randomly, I think that's quite important, though. If they sat at the same time every day, then their brain actually five minutes before starts to think, "Hang on, my alarm's gonna go soon." So it's quite important, it has to go randomly. And, yeah, it's just a really great opportunity to check in and help develop that mindfulness and the informal practice that Aaron's talking about.

Moderator: So you're, if I understood well, like your suggestion will be like, keep the same structure of like a traditional MBSR protocol and reduce the time of mindfulness meditation, while keeping it consistent. But would you select some of some of the contents of the MBSR, and you will not teach some other contents in condensed protocols? Would you do a selection? Or would you like, keep the entire protocol in the way it is.

Speaker 4: I mean, it really depends on what you're trying to achieve, and maybe the parameters of the intervention. With MBSR, usually, we offer, you know, an array of practices. And at the end of the day, it's up to the participants to choose what works for them, and how they would like to continue with it. But each practice also serves a different intention, or purpose of practice, right? So for example, the body scan would be a very different practice from awareness of breath. And I don't have an answer right now. But a lot of people based on my experience over the years, they really hate the body scan, they have a hard time doing the body scan. And so without the support of a group to practice with, for example, without the support of a teacher, it might be difficult for them. And so perhaps some adaptation would be necessary without losing the essence of the practice. So for example, in mindfulness with the body scan, it might not work very well if we do a 10-minute body scan, because then it becomes too fast and you're really losing out on observing the body, parts of the body as it is, and also cultivating the skills of attention. And also some attitudes of mindfulness, that curiosity, patience. So these are practices that would take time and perhaps this can be introduced, I don't know, at a later part of the intervention or the program, and some easier ones that are generally more accepted, more easily accepted might be awareness of breath, or awareness of body, even like open awareness can be taught in a shorter duration.

Moderator: Another important aspect relates to the order of the exercises. So, you would introduce some exercises, and when maybe the practitioner becomes more expert, you would introduce more, or maybe you would go for longer meditations or different ones such as body scan?

Speaker 4: Because I think that buildup is definitely important, especially for beginners of mindfulness. And if we introduce, that duration of practice definitely matters, right? So a person practicing for 10 minutes a day, I suppose the person practicing for 30 minutes or one hour, would be very different. And so it takes time to sort of have a build-up to that. So I think if the intervention is over a longer period of time, and if participants are okay to go deeper into the practice over time, if they're comfortable with it, then why not? Right? If not, but what I feel is, and also, of course, depending on the the objective of your research, if it is to help participants to manage stress, then, you know, they may find that 10 minutes of awareness of breath a day is sufficient for me to combat the daily stresses that I'm facing, and a 45-minute body scan may not be needed. Thank you.

Speaker 5: If I can jump in here, because Alessandro, this is an intervention, you're designing, not some app where you're just going to choose this meditation and you just do whatever you want, or this, you know, different meditations. It's a multi-week thing where can you explain that? Because I'm not really sure what exactly is.

Moderator: Sure. So yes, this is an international trial I'm designing. So I will not use any, any app. And the idea is that it lasts weeks, but I wanted to do this focus group to have an idea of which is the correct duration of the intervention, like, the idea is that this intervention is brief, but long enough to have a slight effect on stress levels of individuals that may not have time to be involved in really big mindfulness protocols.

Speaker 5: And also your, I'm sorry, yeah, sure. Sure. Yeah. So you're kind of asking us and one of the questions would be, how long do we think this intervention should be? How often should people check in? Because like, MBSR is once a week? Or is it No, classroom time with some teacher guide or anything like that? I don't quite understand if it's going to be it's sort of app-based, is there going to be meetings with live teachers every once in a while or not? Because that would be given, given, you know, all the things that come out of MBSR. I mean, kinda what to do. Now, if I can just give you a real quick background. So I don't know if you know, Amishi Jha from the University of Miami. Well, she's, she's pretty well known actually, a mindfulness attention researcher, and has a book called Peak Mind that was a bestseller around the world. But anyway, we she she came up with a lot of research practices now goes 10 years ago, that the minimum contact time for an intervention and mindfulness-based intervention was eight hours. And she found that we could do it in four weeks. So two hours a week for four weeks would be the minimum. And the minimum amount of practice time would be 12 minutes a day. For the populations we dealt with back then, which were high-stress, high-demand populations, like military, first responders, college students, and things like that. So for the high-stress populations, four minutes a day to help buffer against cognitive decline and help a little bit with stress. And for over four weeks, with two hours worth of meeting with a teacher. And there she's done a lot of research out there on these high-stress. I mean, again, you may want to check out her book, if you haven't picked mine. It goes through all of the stuff that she did there. So she figured that out a long time ago, and came out through the research. And the four basic meditations that are taught once a week are going to be focused attention, body scan, open awareness, and loving-kindness. And they were just once done every week like that. And at the end of the four weeks, people were taught to do that daily, they were supposed to do it for 12 minutes a day, you find this, that and the other. Lots of evidence now from that I've adapted a number of research programs with the new university, I work with four different populations as well. And I stretched it out to six weeks, needing one hour a week for six weeks, but introducing those four basic practices and at the end, allowing the students to choose which one they were going to be most drawn to for the immediate needs that they have once the course was over. So that's the kind of intervention that I'm used to when it comes to mindfulness-based interventions for things like stress reduction, anxiety, depression, insomnia, and that kind of thing. Symptom reduction, if you will. So that's what I'm trying to get an idea is that you going along those lines, something similar like that are Yeah, exactly.

Moderator: And the idea is that, I mean, I, this is not set in stone, but typically these self-administered mindfulness interventions function via audio tracks. So basically, you can hear the recording whenever you can enhance flexibility for a population that cannot meditate like and don't have a lot of time. So the idea is to create an intervention that can last one or two weeks, four weeks, this is yet to be decided. The idea of the focus group is also to decide the duration of the intervention.

Speaker 5: Right? But do they have to be somewhere in there, where they're going to meet with a teacher, a live teacher, interaction with the teacher, to get feedback with the group, a group or even one another? Isn't going to be all sort of recorded, these…

Moderator: It would be really challenging, because my idea is to have a multi-site international study. So also, like that, operationally, it is really hard to implement, but it's possible. But if we have a teacher for each site that, speak with all the participants of that size, that would be really, really hard to do.

Speaker 5: I appreciate that. Um, so I'm just wondering, in order for me to kind of get an idea of what I have for you. So again, you're thinking, a six-week program, a week program where they're there, they're just going to be instructed somehow to listen to something and it's going to be, do you imagine it being changing? Or if some Is there? So this is what the person signs up and says, okay, and then you say to the person, or listen to this recording for the rest of the six weeks? And will we retest you in six weeks, that kind of thing? Or they're going to be intermission in between where even a recorded person comes on and says, "How are you doing? What are you doing?" Or something like that? That's where I'm trying to figure out where you're going.

Speaker 2: Hey, Alessandro, can I make another point? Sure. So in my experience, if somebody sticks with the same type of meditation, then basically their brain is getting used to doing that. And they're getting better at doing that. So I always suggest to people not to chop and change, but actually to stick with one type. And then you're actually working on that exercise of keeping your focus, noticing when your thoughts have wandered, and you're developing that awareness, that mindfulness much more effectively, I believe, if you're sticking with just one type. I feel that if you do one type for one week, and then the second week, it has to be another type of meditation, then And, you know, they've got to learn that and get to grips with that all over again. And actually, progression will be the maximum if they just stick to one type. That's my feeling. Okay, thanks.

Speaker 5: Yeah, with all due respect, nobody has shown that research-wise, the research does show, changing the meditation is effective now, doesn't mean sticking with one isn't effective. But these programs that have multiple options seem to work in whatever they're measuring. And it's mostly going to be psychological distress, anxiety, and depression, those mental health types of things. So, so I'm not saying you should do a one way or another, I'm just pointing out that from my familiarity and my research, the research that we do also shows that changing it up, because in the end, after the person finishes, if this one doesn't take, they have a couple of options, many people, for instance, these days go for loving-kindness in my experience.

Speaker 2: I agree. And actually, I'm a big fan of loving-kindness meditation. And I always say to people, it's important to find which type of meditation works for you, which one you feel most comfortable with, and which feels easiest. And then I try to encourage them to stick with that. But in this case, I think Alessandro wants everybody to do the same. So they're not choosing, they're not going to be choosing which type they do, because I guess that wouldn't be such a controlled control test, then.

Moderator: Yeah, the idea is that the intervention is the same for all participants.

Speaker 5: Yeah, so you're just asking them. Number one, you got to start with the big picture, you're making the assumption that mindfulness meditations will be helpful for stress, number one, and then number two, which mindfulness meditation would be the most helpful to try whether it's focused attention, open awareness, and body scan, or even movement? And that's what you're kind of asking for us? And then for how many weeks? That kind of thing? Okay, got it?

Speaker 2: You could be doing more than one type, we're like more than one group. So it's not just a control group and a meditation group, but it's a control group, a breath meditation group, and a loving-kindness meditation group, and a mantra meditation group, and then compare the results at the end and see who feels that they have reduced the most stress.

Speaker 3: Do you do any assessments with the people prior, like to screen out anxiety or depression? Because anxiety can be a huge issue trying to help people with mindfulness?

Moderator: Yeah, the idea is to exclude participants with mental illnesses or with a history of mental illnesses, such as depression, because the idea is to have it fully online. So we can't see them while meditating. I mean, it's not like to have them in the lab, so you cannot see them.  So because it's so long, we want to be on the safe side, and have a normal population of people that have medium to high levels of stress, but not a diagnosed clinical condition.

Speaker 3: So not anxiety, I mean, because usually stress and anxiety kind of go hand in hand for people.

Speaker 5: This is what is called a non-clinical population? Yeah, it can be distressing having worry and anxiety. And that's where your exclusion criteria is going to have to be defined out. But that's generally what they call the non-clinical versus the clinical populations.

Here's the transcript with the spelling mistakes corrected:

Speaker 6: Look, I definitely agree with what's been said, you know, elements like repetition, build, building up skill, a bit like the analogy of, you know, physical muscle, gradually building up strength over time. What else have we said? I mean, I think your, your question here about what components, what else, maybe some of the educational elements, if there's, you know, discussion around acceptance or non-judgment, those sorts of things, releasing expectations around meditation, developing compassion, all these things I find really helpful, too, especially for beginners learning about meditation. And I guess if there's no connection with a live group, or particularly a teacher, I wonder how successful it will be for beginners. To be honest, but but maybe, you know, if there's a possibility of including opportunity for self-reflection, you know, maybe journaling questions or, particularly if it's around stress management, you know, encouraging people to reflect on how they feel stress, when they feel stressed, some strategies to deal with that, and then maybe just over the time, and really reflecting how, how is that, you know, so that people can gauge their own progress, hopefully, and help to provide that motivation to, to keep going. And the other thing I would say is, certainly for me, I find understanding some of the science, you know, some of the, the neuroscience or just understanding what's actually happening internally, when, when I meditate, or, you know, what I'm actually developing in terms of brain, my brain connections. I know for me, that's been quite helpful as well to, again, provide some motivation, especially early on, when I might not feel like I'm doing very well or doing it right or those kinds of self-judgments we can have.

Speaker 2: I agree. I agree with what Jen is saying. But I also think that if somebody is signing up to take part in the study, they'll feel a commitment to actually do it every day anyway. Regardless, so the signing up, presumably Alessandro, because they're suffering from stress. They want to see an outcome, but also because they've made that commitment to take part in the study, then they'll be actually motivated to do it every day.

Speaker 5: Yeah, you're gonna have any contingency management, or any financial rewards for them because I find the dropout rate pretty high in our research when there wasn't anything like that. For so at the beginning of the pandemic for so-called the pandemic stress, whatever it is when we ran in over a year and a half 140 students and staff at a university and I would say, gosh, it was probably 40% 60% may have completed at least four of the six sessions. That I don't know if you call it drop-out, people just didn't show up. And, you know, it was the students at the University, this was sponsored by the university. We're doing now we're designing a project for binge drinking college students where we are doing contingency management where certain gifts and things like that to keep on the roll, it's a different population, of course, but lots of things, especially if there's no group called accountable, you know, if you're on your own for four weeks just to be listening to and and want to make sure that you have some kind of record keeping of how often they do it and not wait not wait to the end of the intervention, but somewhere through in there have them before them would be the most helpful, because if it's going to be four weeks or six weeks, people may underestimate or overestimate what they actually did. You really want to get a correlation to those engagement.

Moderator: Yeah, that's really hard. Because basically, if the intervention is too long, you lose participants, you lose people. But at the same time, if it's too short, maybe it's not effective to reduce stress. So the idea of this focus group is also to think about a possible balance between these two things, like, we want people to learn to reduce stress, even to a small extent. But we don't want to build an intervention that is too heavy in a way that participants will be stressed because it's like too long or too hard for them. I think we can go to the next set of questions. I mean, we already discussed these things. So about the frequency, the duration, and how, basically, the tracks should be structured. I think we spoke a little bit about duration, but not about frequency. So should they meditate every day? Or maybe it's better like it three times a week. What's your opinion?

Speaker 2: Every day.

Speaker 4: Every day.

Speaker 3: For you, I think that 12 minutes is really the minimum, right? So 12 minutes is pretty easy for most people to do and to fit into their day, 12 minutes in the morning or evening, or even at lunch break. 12 minutes is easy. But if you start to give them more than that, it can be difficult. And psychoeducation is really important in your weekly class, like to have a bit of psychoeducation and then a meditation, 12 minutes. So they learn about why am I doing this? People are more inclined to do it if they understand the concepts behind it. I feel like so I mean, that's been my experience when I teach my classes, and I usually run them six weeks.

Speaker 5: The integration is something to be considered. It might help to give them a few practices a day. It doesn't have to be the same practice. So for example, if you got them to just meditate for 10 minutes a day, they can choose whenever they want to, but also maybe another informal practice where they learn to bring mindfulness into their as they go about their day-to-day life and just bring mindful awareness to that, I think in balance are both the formal and informal.

Moderator: Thank you. Any other thoughts on this?

Speaker 5: I think it goes without saying and maybe rehashing what we just said that the frequency has to be tied into the duration, because if you've been asked people to do 40 minutes a day, it's not likely they're going to do it every day, whether you tell them to or not. You can start with shorter ones, if you can't get to 12 minutes a day. So so when she went from her research work, which continues at the University of Miami, to writing her best-selling book for the lay public, it opened up quite a bit in the lay public, because it's okay to do five minutes a day, try to get to 12 after it's okay to do five minutes. And then and then it wasn't so much. Daily, it was regular, like you start a gym membership, sometimes you just go Monday, Wednesday, Friday, but as long as you keep up the regularity, according to her thinking as a neuroscientist, the regularity is good enough, even though it would be a lot better daily. Monday, Wednesday, Friday is better than somebody has said before, once a week or once a month, so.

Moderator: And yeah, the other question I saw, if you can think about, like, you know, the audio tracks that will be that will build this intervention, how would you structure them? Like? We said, I don't know, 12 minutes, for instance, can be a good time. But would you have all the, you know, the mindfulness exercise, or you would also maybe have a psychoeducational part at the beginning. In which you say something about mindfulness about some foundational attitude or mindfulness. What's your ideal, the structure of your track?

Speaker 5: I think having an introductory segment would be good. Although  if you add in an introductory segment, then it might, I don't know, if it might put people off to say, "Oh, I could have practiced for 10 minutes, right." And then it sort of impacts that the time of so what, what we had done before is to just, you know, just sort of tag the point where the, the practice starts on the audio clip so that it can forward to that if they didn't want to, and then also offer that introductory part, which I assume would be, you know, just expounding, why this practice is this way and the science behind it, etc. If we can put it in the form of texts, sometimes it may be easier for people to just at a glance, just look at what they're practicing and why they're practicing this and then they could jump straight into the audio, the practice itself.

Speaker 2: It might be simpler just to have two audio clips, one with the explanation, which they probably only want to listen to once, and then the actual 12-minute track of the actual practice that they listen to every day. So I wouldn't actually meditate. They probably don't want to listen to it more than once.

Speaker 6: Yeah, I do find this benefit in some of that educational stuff, you know, really like you're saying and you know, incorporating mindful attitudes into daily life, you know, talking about judgment or expectations or you know, not trying to strain, you know, these things can be applied into the meditation practice, and also to the rest of life. So, I think that they're important for learning there. And yeah, sure, I might want to separate them from the actual practice. But I think they're equally as important really, in a lot of ways. Especially when you don't have the opportunity to talk through your challenges with a teacher, we can address those common challenges. Is the suggestion there just to have this up front? And that's it or sprinkled in throughout the weeks?

Speaker 5: Sorry, what do you mean? So this so-called psychoeducational component? Of course, questions, if you just do it upfront one time, you're done with it for the rest of the time, or do you can update it, you know, short things throughout the

Moderator: I, yep. I don't know yet. Some ideas could be also throughout the week also. So not just at the beginning, but also during an intervention.

Speaker 5: We did use a company as an upstart from California called Mindful Tech, and we designed the text to go out usually five times a week, with simple reminders, say doing your practice today, and sometimes with educational stuff, and then opportunities to go further. You know, as you like, the body scans, the brain science, blah, blah, blah, if you want to learn more, click here. And you can go on and be surprised a fair amount of people did actually take that up and go there. In fact, a number of people don't remember the percentage, only did the mindful text within listen to the recording.

Moderator: And another thing I find sometimes when I listen to different my favorite strategies, like the use of metaphors, like oftentimes I have these metaphors of like, the blue sky and like thoughts are like clouds, not in the past by and there is all the time the blue sky. So even if you have thoughts, then they will go away, and it will be fine. So do you use metaphors? Do you think it's something that can be helpful? To teach mindfulness?

Speaker 2: Yes, I think it is, but they don't want to hear the same one every day. So it would have to be in the educational but not the actual recording that they're going to play every day? Yeah, of course.

Speaker 6: Yeah, I think I think all this complementary stuff, education, analogies, metaphors, and the educational component are particularly helpful when it comes to stress management, you know, because, like, as we know, with stress, so much of it is actually, you know, kind of projection or we actually have a lot of control over our stresses. So, yeah, I think all this stuff, in my experience, can be very helpful.

Speaker 2: Yeah, I agree. I do quite a lot of corporate presentations. And the thing about these is that the people who are there in the room have not necessarily chosen to be there. They don't necessarily want to hear about meditation, and mindfulness. And I am very much into science. That's my background as an engineer, and then a teacher. And I love this, my favorite aspect of the sessions is starting with a bit of the science explaining it, and just the look on their faces that goes from boredom and disinterest to becoming engaged, and then actually asking lots and lots of questions. So having that little bit of understanding about the science really does make people want to engage with the practice and do it much more.

Moderator: Thanks.

Moderator: Think we have only like five minutes left? I think we can briefly discuss the control group, the development of the control group. So I think the hardest part would be to have a good control group for the mindfulness intervention, to disentangle the true effect and demand effect because one of the problems of mindfulness trials is that part of the stress-relieving effect can be like a sort of placebo effect. People actually feel less stressed just because they know about meditation and know that meditation is something that helps to relieve stress. So the idea is to have a control condition in which basically, we tell participants that they are doing mindfulness. While in reality, they are not really doing mindfulness. So they have to, they think that they are practicing meditation. But he said there are no active components of mindfulness meditation. So you said about visualization for reasons before. But would you add some other ideas for creating this intervention, because if we have a progression, like in the 2,3,4 weeks mindfulness intervention, the idea is to also have progression like in the sham meditation control group condition. And without having any active ingredient of the mindfulness practice, I think this is a really hard question. So it's something that requires some sort of reasoning. But I wanted to know whether you have something in mind that we can implement as a good control condition for mindfulness.

Speaker 2: Well, I've been thinking about this, since you sent it out. Because actually, I think it's really challenging. Most people have an idea of what mindfulness is, and they will realize that they're not doing anything mindful. However, they think that if you could, in the original questionnaire, ask people, you know, on a scale of one to 10, how well they can visualize, and then all those people that are scoring one or two, if you take them and you give them a visualization meditation, they will think they're doing a meditation and practicing mindfulness. But I don't think they'll get any benefits from it. That's the only thing I could come up with. Because otherwise, I think people will realize, well, hang on, I'm not doing mindfulness here. Yeah.

Speaker 2: That there's a lot of knowledge around it. Now. I mean, it's out there, you know, everybody knows about it. It's hard, find people who know nothing about it. And you can fool them into thinking they're not doing it.

Speaker 4: Are your participants recruited from Singapore?

Moderator: So the idea is to have a multi-site experiment. So people, sites will recruit participants across the world. But the idea is to have Singapore participating as a site.

Speaker 4: I don't know if it might help to just sort of cash in on some of the common misconceptions about mindfulness. So people think they're practicing mindfulness, but they're actually not. So you know, I've had people who tell me that I'm, I'm listening to music mindfully. And essentially, it's simply enjoyment. Right? So they're sort of just indulging in enjoyment of some something sensual, so it could be enjoying a meal, eaten, what does it mean to eat a meal mindfully, if they tell them to open the senses or be present with your food, or, you know, just just enjoy the food, simple instructions like that, or even even, you know, like visualization, like Susie had mentioned, most people think that mindfulness includes a heavy component of visualization.

Speaker 5: To add on to that, straight up relaxation, you know, the instructions to relax. They even breathe, whatever it may be, but if you do a similar length, duration meditation with the instructions being more about relaxation, rather than awareness and acceptance, because that's another misconception people have out there that mindfulness is all about relaxation.

Unknown Speaker: Well, let them think they're doing it. But they're not sure not to bring their attention on a particular object like if the minds wander, let the mind wander for them.

Speaker 2: Well, that will probably turn into an open awareness type of meditation, where they're watching, they're practicing, they're developing mindfulness.

Moderator: That's why developing this control condition is really challenging, So, it's really tricky, I would say.

Speaker 5: Sorry, I would think that most people already perceive that mindfulness has a focus attention component to it. So if you if there's no nothing, there's no object of attention, then I don't know, they might find something amiss. I'm not sure.

Speaker 2: But I can tell you having a phantasia myself and this total inability to visualize anything, that visualization meditation gives absolutely zero benefits.

Speaker 5: Okay, we're not trying not to get benefits. We're trying to compare whether the mindfulness component of a meditation does reduce stress more so than any other type of meditation, right? I mean, yeah, exactly. It could be doing visualization, or watching a movie, reading a book, listening to an audio book. Things like that as a component where somebody thinks they're focusing or concentrating on something, but there's not really a mindfulness orientation to it.
