[T001] Moderator: Question 1. What’s your favourite place in your city to spend time with your male friends? Why - feel free to be specific?
[T002] Participant 1: So, um, I'll start by there's a really nice property called Old Town House in Edinburgh. So that's probably the favourite place with male friends. It's a nice place with cheap beer and a good place to go.
[T003] Moderator: Sorry, I'm just, sorry David it's just hard to hear you. Um, I think it's because we're getting some noise. Okay. Uh, I'm not sure. Okay, I think that's better now. Sorry. Um, yeah, go again. Sorry about that.
[T004] Participant 1: Yeah, so it's a place called Old Town House. It's a pub. It's on like a rooftop, so that's probably where we go most often, and it's decent price, and easy to get to for all of us to meet up. So that's probably the best place that we would go to. Who wants to go next?
[T005] Participant 2: I'll go next. Um, typically, um, there's a place called the Goody Goose. It's, um (.), got reasonably priced food. It's got a nice selection of food. Um, and (.), um, it's usually very nice, but it's in a nice situation, it's in a nice spot, um, [unintelligible], so that's where I would go.
[T006] Participant 1: Just the, just the classics, cheap food, nice drinks, like.
[T007] Participant 2: Yeah, basically, yeah.
[T008] Participant 3: Yeah, I'll go next. I feel the best place, uh, we will go then was, uh, we'll go to parks and, uh, most times there's no, uh, plan on getting what to eat. We just get here and, uh, see what, uh, what is available and everybody picks their choices.
[T009] Participant 1: It just kind of depends what everyone's feeling, I guess.
[T010] Participant 3: Yeah, that's just depending on where the place is. And.
[T011] Participant 4: Um, I'll go next. Do you, oh, do you want to go next or me?
[T012] Participant 5: Yeah, yeah, you can go next.
[T013] Participant 4: Um, so my favourite place in the city is a place called Driving Simulator, where you can drive Formula 1 cars, as a simulation with my friends. Um, because we all share the same hobby. Um, how do we decide what to eat? It's in the city centre, so we can just go anywhere to be honest, and eat anywhere.
[T014] Participant 5: Okay, so, um, my favourite place in the city is, um, Old Trafford, that's, um, in Manchester. That is where I do like to have fun with my male friends. We go watch, um, Manchester United matches and all.
[T015] Moderator: Question 2. How do you decide what to eat?
[T016] Participant 1: Uh, kind of just depends what we're all feeling, to be honest. Like, I don't think we ever go out with like a set place in mind unless we've booked somewhere but like otherwise we're out for a few drinks it's like just decide what we want to eat and then there's loads of places around it so we just pick one after that.
[T017] Participant 2: Typically how I decide what to eat is normally depending on where we're going so Giddy Goose for example has a lot of different stuff but typically I usually have burgers but I've really tried to not have that and actually try something different for a change.
Um, so if there's something, if I've been there before, I'll probably try something different just to see what I like, um, uh, that's, yeah, typically burgers or pizzas probably, but it depends if it was like a Chinese restaurant or a Thai restaurant, that's different. So you'd have something specific to that. Yeah.
[T018] Participant 1: I guess like when it comes to stuff like that, when it's like Chinese or that, I'll usually go like different stuff, but like burgers and pizzas, I'm usually just going to get the exact same thing every time.
[T019] Participant 2: Yeah.
[T020] Participant 3: Well, we, yeah, I'll go next. We don't really decide what we'll eat like that. Most times we jump on each other's cravings. Just if one person just says, I want to go for burger, then you see everybody trying to go for burger and whatever. So it's not, it's not really like a setting of, this is what we're going to eat, no. Just jump on each other's cravings and see what we can't eat.
[T021] Participant 1: Yeah, makes sense.
[T022] Participant 4: Um, yeah, I'll just elaborate on what I said. So the city centre has like over 50 places to eat, so I can just go anywhere. And, you know, fast food, it's usually that because we're all fat. So, yeah.
[T023] Moderator: Question 3. Do you think your gender influences what you eat? Tell us more about why or why not?
[T024] Participant 3: Well, uh, I think, uh, if it's, uh, between the males only, I don't think, uh, there's, uh, a lot of the, uh, stuff like that. I think, uh, the male uh, the male just has a free mind about eating things and, uh, they don't really (.), there's not really an influence to the agenda like that.
[T025] Participant 1: Yeah, I would agree.
[T026] Participant 3: With the free stuff like that, just, that's, there's not really an influence on it.
[T027] Participant 1: I think, I think, you know, like gender influences what you eat. If it's like me, we're like, we're like just my guy friends, like we might go somewhere where we know like, there's like cheap beer as well. But nothing, nothing like actual food-wise. I don't think I've ever made a decision on where to eat on like, any influences, like gender-wise. Um, so I would say no, for where we would eat.
[T028] Participant 5: Okay, so how do you decide what to eat? We barely decide what to eat. It's just, um, probably what we want to eat for that particular moment, food for the moment, probably whatever we are craving to eat. Basically, we can have this kind of early morning coffee and stuff like that, but we really don't decide what to eat. It's just depending on what we are craving at the moment.
[T029] Participant 1: And do you want to answer question three as well?
[T030] Participant 5: Do you think gender influences what you eat? Um, yeah, basically I do think gender does, because as a male, I guess there are certain things I am meant to take, which ladies might take and I might not take. Let's, let's, um, let's talk about probably sugary stuff, chocolates. I view as a male. I, as I, as a male, I am, I'm not going to take, like, sugary stuff, and the like, so I feel gender influences what I do eat.
[T031] Participant 4: Um, I don't think gender influences what I eat. Maybe how much I eat with my like guy friends compared to my girls that are friends. But I don't like, where we go to, not really. It's usually just all the same. It might order a bit more, but that's not really relevant.
[T032] Participant 2: Um, so I would say, yeah, I think if you're with your (.), if you're with, um, your male friends, then if you're out, you do feel like you do need to eat more. So I, again, you would go for burgers or pizzas and get bigger ones or the higher stat burgers, for example. But if I'm with my wife, it would be, I'd probably have something maybe a bit different, um, you know, steak sandwiches, that type of thing, um, just something lighter. Yeah, that makes you look a bit better.
[T033] Moderator: Question 4. Imagine you decided to go plant-based - what would need to change in your life for you to do that?
[T034] Participant 1: Um, we eat quite a lot of meat to be honest, like me and my partner, so, probably need to change a lot, like completely change like what recipes we know. Um, how we do the shopping, so a lot of the way we deal with food would have to change in a minute. So maybe try different shops as well to see if there's any better and just look up different recipes and just learn a bit more about going plant based. I would say.
[T035] Participant 4: Would you like me to go next?
[T036] Participant 1: Yeah, that's fine.
[T037] Participant 4: Um, I think my whole, like, diet would have to change because, um, I'm quite fond of the gym, so I have, like, protein in every meal. So, like, chicken, tuna, beef. So I'd have to, you know, change, like, my whole diet, change my whole cooking style, find new recipes, and I think it'd be a lot of effort.
[T038] Participant 3: Yeah, uh, imagine if you, imagine if you decided to go plant based. [unintelligible] decide to go plant based now. It's going to really, a lot of things have to change. Because, one, I'm an athlete, I, uh, I go gymming every time, I go training almost every time like that. And coming to plant based, you know, try kind of get a strength training and going plant based, a lot of things have to change. A lot of things has to change. Even the ways of life where you go to the trainings and all of those things has to be just changed totally.
[T039] Participant 5: Okay. Going plant based. I guess a lot of things have changed because I am basically new and trying to adapt. So I would have to work on my diet. I would have to work on my diet. I would have to work on the foods I eat. I would have to get more education and enlightenment concerning plant based. I would also have to change my friends. Because basically, I have friends who are gym rats, who love to go to the gym together, who love to do strength training and the like. So I have to change my friends to people who are probably agriculturists, and have more interest in plants.
[T040] Participant 2: Um, God, it would be, it would be quite the change, but, you know, I have had plant based stuff before, like the fake doner meat, which is actually all right. Um, but again, you just need to learn what different things you could make. So mince pies, couldn't have that again, uh, burgers, couldn't have that. And I'm not keen on the fake products, like the fake sausages, the fake bacon, any of that, because it’s just...
[T041] Participant 1: The important stuff.
[T042] Participant 2: yeah, it's just not the same thing.
And I think I would find it very difficult, but I suppose like, I have, like, risotto, and risotto you can have with different stuff, so you don't have to have chicken with it. You could have, um, butternut squash, stuff like that. You could also have, um, gnocchi, um, which is just as good again.
Plant based, you know, I, I, I don't know. I just don't know how I would adapt to it. But I think about things quite often. I think I could, I could become a pescatarian because I just don't think sometimes the thought of chicken just you just kind of think about it a bit too much but I think if you smelt like bacon cooking it would be oh my god I've got to have that um or sausages or something like that um but you just learn. You would maybe substitute stuff for different things, but of course the staple meals that you've had before would have to change. Or at least just try some of the plant based stuff, but I'm not too keen on it.
[T043] Participant 1: It's just a bit bland, innit, sometimes? It just doesn't taste right.
[T044] Participant 2: I've tried, like, the fake doner meat, I've had that. It's pretty good. Um, have it in a wrap and things. You couldn’t tell the difference. I suppose it's just the spiciness of it.
[T045] Participant 1: Certainly like, in Scotland, it's like a proper culture, like eating meat as well, though. It's hard to get like
[T046] Participant 2: Yeah, I know, like pies, like mince pies and steak pies and all that. Yeah, it's difficult.
[T047] Moderator: Question 5. What might make plant-based foods more appealing to you or other men you know?
[T048] Participant 1: Um more appealing is that you've got to make them taste better, I would say, first of all.
Like, you've got to give them a bit more flavour and a bit more. I don't know, you've just got to make it feel like you're eating something substantial. Because sometimes when you're eating plant based stuff, it can just taste a bit rubbery, a bit like just not much going on is the biggest thing I've heard from, from my pals.
Um, and just maybe make it a bit, because some of it's quite expensive as well. Like if you want to go for that like alternative plant based, it can be more expensive and I think that puts off a lot of people. So I'd say, yeah, taste is the biggest one and then price is gonna be the second.
[T049] Participant 4: Um, I personally think that, so when you look at the label at the back and you see all the, the additives and, like, the preservatives and, you know, all this stuff they added in. It's a bit, um, not demoralising, but it turns you away from buying it because I don't really know what I'm putting inside my body. Because, you know, just chicken is, it's made of chicken. Whereas, if I bought a plant based one, it has some random stuff I never heard of and I'm not comfortable in putting that in. So, if, if the ingredient list was a bit shorter and I was familiar with it, maybe it would be more appealing to me.
[T050] Participant 1: If there was just like a bit more education around what goes in it as well, I guess. If it was more commonly known about like, look, this is what we're putting in instead of chicken or that. It's like, okay, I understand that.
[T051] Participant 4: So like chicken will just say chicken on the back. Whereas a plant based one would have something like glycolic acid or something. I have no idea what that is.
[T052] Participant 3: Yeah, plant based. I think mostly plant based are vegetables. I don't know. Yeah, I bet it was. I read that back there in Nigeria. Uh, some vegetables like that, uh, mostly, you know, they are plant based and they are good for the body, very good for the body, uh, uh, good for the heart, uh, and it makes you, it makes you, uh, it makes you watch your body very well, and they are good for with, uh, uh, for checking of your weight also mostly.
[T053] Participant 5: Um, plant based foods might be appealing to me in the sense that (.), um, they contain less calories. It helps in, uh, regulating your blood sugar, preventing diabetes. It's also many health, um, advantages with it. And I feel it's much more better than, okay, the, the lot of calories we're taking from, uh, normal, regular foods we eat. Plant based foods might be appealing to me.
[T054] Participant 2: Um, I think more education about it would be good. Again (.), um, about the like the actual ingredients. As well, I think that needs to be what's actually going into this. What am I actually eating here? Um, um, like if it was, I don’t know, like, again, it's like very rubbery and needs to be better, a better product thing.
It needs to get through a taste panel a few more times. What do people, what did they actually think about it? Just trying to make it not so rubbery. I think that's the problem. And make it taste a bit better, a bit more salt and pepper, maybe. And, you know, the price is really, it is expensive. If you want to compete with that, you need to bring it, you need to try and make it as best as possible, but you kind of need to make it, um, for the average person to be able to afford it, you know, week after week doing their shopping.
Um, and then maybe some, I don't know, recipe ideas, like what can I actually do with this? Because the things that just pop into my head are the fake sausages and the fake bacon, but what, you know, you're not going to have that in a roll. Um, what can you actually do with this stuff, you know, some recipes, stuff, stuff like that. Maybe seeing it on, you know, those cooking programs on the telly, stuff like that, you know.
[T055] Participant 1: I think the biggest thing is like, try to make it so I don't, I don't know that I'm not eating meat would be the best way.
[T056] Participant 2: Yeah. yeah.
[T057] Participant 1: It's like, make it so good and so close to meat that I'm like, oh, this could be meat. I don't know.
[T058] Participant 2: Yeah, like I keep coming back to that doner meat. It's really, it is actually really good.
[T059] Participant 1: Where is it from? Just like the shop?
[T060] Participant 2: I can't remember what it was called. It was just at a Tesco.
[T061] Participant 1: Oh, it wasn't like on a night out or that? You didn't go in and ask for it?
[T062] Participant 2: No, no, no. It was like proper I've bought it a few, yeah, I've bought it a few times. You stick it in the pan, you cook it, and then put it in a wrap with lettuce and tomato and it's quite good, so um
[T063] Participant 1: I’m gonna look out for that. I think that's about it I think, that's about it with the questions.
[T064] Participant 4: Yeah I think that's all the questions.